=pod

=head1 NAME

sstoraged - Software Storage daemon

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<sstoraged> [B<-h>|B<--help>] [B<-v>|B<--version>] [B<-d>|B<--debug>]
[B<-c> F<config file> | B<--config>=F<config file>]
[B<-p> F<PID file> | B<--pid>=F<PID file>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<sstoraged> is an iSCSI target. It is designed to cooperate with other B<sstoraged>,
and many enhancements are included in.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over

=item B<-h>

=item B<--help>

Help option. Output a short summary of available command line options.

=item B<-v>

=item B<--version>

Version option. Print version number of B<sstoraged>, and then exit.

=item B<-d>

=item B<--debug>

Debug option. Run as foreground job, and print debug logs to standard output.

=item B<-c> F<config file>

=item B<--config>=F<config file>

Configuration file option.
Set configuration file path, to read during server startup.
The default is F</etc/sstorage/sstoraged.conf>.

See F<sstoraged.conf>(5), about configuration file format, attributes, and so on.

=item B<-p> F<PID file>

=item B<--pid>=F<PID file>

PID file option.
Set PID file path, to output process ID after successful server startup.
The default is F</var/run/sstoraged>.

=back

=head1 SIGNALS

B<sstoraged> handles some signals.

=over

=item INT,TERM

These signals tell B<sstoraged> to shut down immediately.
Any sessions in progress get aborted.

=item USR1

This signal tells B<sstoraged> to shut down gracefully,
as soon as current sessions are passed to the other B<sstoraged>.

=item HUP

This signal tells B<sstoraged> to close and re-open its log file,
for instance if you rotated the logs and want it to start using the new one.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

B<sstoraged.conf>(5)

=cut