=pod

=head1 NAME

sstoraged.conf - sstoraged configuration file

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<sstoraged.conf> is the configuration file for B<sstoraged>.
The general format of B<sstoraged.conf> is B<JSON>(JavaScript Object Notification) format.

There are large number of attributes that can be specified,
but these mostly fall into 5 categories, as follows.

=over

=item General settings

=item iSCSI protocol configurations

=item iSCSI Target specific settings

=item iSCSI Initiator specific settings

=item Volume settings

=back

In General settings,
B<ConsolePort>, B<GlobalTargetName> & B<LocalTargetName> attributes 
B<MUST BE SPECIFIED> manually,
but others can be managed by B<WWW console> afterword.
Volume settings are complicated a little, so we recommend the use of B<WWW console>.

=head1 General

General setting attributes are as follows.

=head2 GlobalTargetName 

Default iSCSI target name, served to initiator.

 Default
 "GlobalTargetName" : "iqn.2006-12.jp.isp:sStorage",

Length MIN. 1 - to - MAX. PATH_MAX

=head2 LocalTargetName

Local target name, used within B<sstoraged> clouds only, NOT served to initiator.

 Default
 "LocalTargetName" : "iqn.2006-12.jp.isp:sStorage0",

Length MIN. 1 - to - MAX. PATH_MAX

=head2 TargetPort

iSCSI target listening port.
Format is B<[<FQDN>]:<port>> or B<[<IPv4/IPv6 address>]:port>.

CAUTION! this value is array, so it is possible that specify multiple listening port.

 Default
 "TargetPort" : ["[0.0.0.0]:3260"],

=head2 ConsolePort

WWW consle listening port.

 Default
 "ConsolePort" : "[0.0.0.0]:32680",

=head2 LogFile

File pathname, to preserve log messages.

 Default
 "LogFile" : "/var/log/sstoraged/system.log",

Length MIN. 1 - to - MAX. PATH_MAX

=head2 LogLevel

Maximum log level, for logging.

 Default
 "LogLevel" : "info",

=head2 PoolSoftLimit

Lower limit of write cache pool size.

 Default
 "PoolSoftLimit" : 134217728,

=head2 PoolHardLimit

Upper limit of write cache pool size.

 Default
 "PoolHardLimit" : 268435456,

=head1 iSCSI

iSCSI specific options.
It can be specified in B<Initiator> section too, for per initiator setting.

=head2 MaxConnections

Maximum iSCSI connections per iSCSI session.

 Default
 "MaxConnections" : 1,

MIN. 1 - to - MAX. 8

=head2 InitialR2T

B<true> means, R2T is necessary before Data-Out.
B<false> means, do unsolicited write.

 Default
 "InitialR2T" : false,

=head2 ImmediateData

B<true> means, WRITE command PDU has data segment.
B<false> means, WRITE command PDU has NO data segment.

 Default
 "ImmediateData" : true,

=head2 MaxRecvDataSegmentLength [B]

Data segment size, iSCSI target can receive in a PDU.

 Default
 "MaxRecvDataSegmentLength" : 65536,

MIN. 512 - to - MAX. 2**24-1

=head2 MaxBurstLength [B]

Total data segment size, can deliver with Data-In/Out PDUs.

 Default
 "MaxBurstLength" : 16776192,

MIN. 512 - to - MAX. 2**24-1

=head2 FirstBurstLength [B]

Unsolicited + Immediate WRITE size.

 Default
 "FirstBurstLength" : 262144,

MIN. 512 - to - MAX. 2**24-1

=head2 DefaultTime2Wait [s]

Minimum time to
wait before attempting an explicit/implicit logout or an active task
reassignment after an unexpected connection termination or a
connection reset.

 Default
 "DefaultTime2Wait" : 2,

MIN. 0 - to - MAX. 3600

=head2 DefaultTime2Retain [s]

Maximum time an initial wait (Time2Wait), before which an active task reassignment
is still possible after an unexpected connection termination or a
connection reset.

 Default
 "DefaultTime2Retain" : 20,

MIN. 0 - to - MAX. 3600

=head2 MaxOutstandingR2T

Maximum number of outstanding R2Ts per task.

 Default
 "MaxOutstandingR2T" : 1,

MIN. 1 - to - MAX. 65535

=head2 DataPDUInOrder

Always true

 Default
 "DataPDUInOrder" : true,

=head2 DataSequenceInOrder

Always true.

 Default
 "DataSequenceInOrder" : true,

=head2 ErrorRecoveryLevel

 Default
 "ErrorRecoveryLevel" : 0,

MIN. 0 - to - MAX. 2

=head2 HeaderDigest

Valid values are B<CRC32> and B<None>.

 Default
 "HeaderDigest" : "None",

=head2 DataDigest

Valid values are B<CRC32> and B<None>.

 Default
 "DataDigest" : "None",

=head2 NopOutInterval [s]

Minimum interval to send out Nop-Out as pings.

 Default
 "NopOutInterval"     : 30,

=head2 NopOutTimeout [s]

Maximum time to wait for a Nop-Out reply (Nop-In).

 Default
 "NopOutTimeout"      : 5,

=head2 IFMarker

B<true> means, ???
B<false> means, ???

 Default
 "IFMarker" : false,

=head2 OFMarker

B<true> means, ???
B<false> means, ???

 Default
 "OFMarker" : false,

=head1 Target

Target section is a list of local targets, belong to B<sstoraged> clouds.
The list may be updated when add/remove a local target events happened.

An entry in Target section may have attributes as follows.

=head2 TargetAlias

Local target alias.
Default is same to B<TargetName>.

=head2 TargetName

Local target name, its format is iSCSI Qualified Name.
B<TargetName> MUST BE SPECIFIED.

=head2 TargetAddress

iSCSI target listen port, its format is [address]:port
B<TargetAddress> MUST BE SPECIFIED.

=head1 Initiator

Initiator section is a list of iSCSI initiators.

An entry in Initiator section may have attributes as follows.

=head2 InitiatorAlias

iSCSI initiator name alias.
Default is same to B<InitiatorName>.

=head2 InitiatorAddress

iSCSI initiator IP address, or hostname.

=head2 InitiatorName

iSCSI initiator name, its format is iSCSI Qualified Name.
B<InitiatorName> MUST BE SPECIFIED.

=head2 LUN

LUN is a list of Logical Unit names for an iSCSI initiator.
Volume section must have specified Logical Unit name.

=head2 DiscoveryAuthMethod

Authenticate method for discovery session.
Valid values are "None" and "CHAP".

 Default
 "DiscoveryAuthMethod" : "None",

=head2 DiscoveryInitiatorUsername

Discovery session CHAP username for initiator.

=head2 DiscoveryInitiatorPassword

Discovery session CHAP password for initiator.

=head2 DiscoveryTargetUsername

Discovery session CHAP username for target.

=head2 DiscoveryTargetPassword

Discovery session CHAP password for target.

=head2 SessionAuthMethod

Authenticate method for normal operational session.
Valid values are "None" and "CHAP".

 Default
 "SessionAuthMethod"   : "None",

=head2 SessionInitiatorUsername

Normal operations session CHAP username for initiator.

=head2 SessionInitiatorPassword

Normal operations session CHAP password for initiator.

=head2 SessionTargetUsername

Normal operations session CHAP username for target.

=head2 SessionTargetPassword

Normal operations session CHAP password for target.

=head1 Volume settings

Volume section is a list of LUNs.
The list may be updated with various events, LUN modification by WWW console,
Virtual Storage Swap, Backup Storage Rebuilding, and so on.

An entry in Volume section may have attributes as follows.

=head2 VolumeName

Logical Unit name.
This attribute MUST BE SPECIFIED.

=head2 Main

Main online B<Volume INFO>.
This attribute MUST BE SPECIFIED.

=head2 Copy

List of Copy B<Volume INFO>s.

=head2 Volume INFO

B<Volume INFO> includes B<Host>, B<Path>, B<Start> and B<Count>.

B<Host> is LocalTargetName, which serves volume.

B<Path> is real storage pathname.

B<Start> is begining offset in storage, at 512[B] units.

B<Count> is ending offset in storage at 512[B] units.

=head1 EXAMPLES

 {
 // General settings
 "GlobalTargetName" : "iqn.2006-12.jp.isp:sStorage",
 "LocalTargetName" : "iqn.2006-12.jp.isp:sStorage0",
 "TargetPort" : ["[0.0.0.0]:3260"],
 "ConsolePort" : "[0.0.0.0]:32680",
 "LogFile" : "/var/log/sstoraged/system.log",
 "LogLevel" : "info",
 
 // Global iSCSI configutations
 "MaxConnections" : 1,
 "InitialR2T" : false,
 "ImmediateData" : true,
 "FirstBurstLength" : 262144,
 "MaxBurstLength" : 16776192,
 "MaxRecvDataSegmentLength" : 65536,
 "MaxOutstandingR2T" : 1,
 "DefaultTime2Wait" : 2,
 "DefaultTime2Retain" : 20,
 "HeaderDigest" : "None",
 "DataDigest" : "None",
 "NopOutInterval"     : 30,
 "NopOutTimeout"      : 5,
 
 // Target definitions
 "Target" : [
     {
         "TargetAlias"   : "sStorage0",
         "TargetName"    : "iqn.2006-12.jp.isp:sStorage0",
 	 "TargetAddress" : "[192.168.0.1]:3260"
     },
     {
 	 "TargetAlias"   : "sStorage1",
         "TargetName"    : "iqn.2006-12.jp.isp:sStorage1",
 	 "TargetAddress" : "[192.168.0.2]:3260"
     },
     {
	 "TargetAlias"   : "sStorage2",
         "TargetName"    : "iqn.2006-12.jp.isp:sStorage2",
	 "TargetAddress" : "[192.168.0.3]:3260"
     }
 ],
 
 // per Initiator configurations
 "Initiator" : [
     {
         "InitiatorAlias"      : "hogehoge"
         "DiscoveryAuthMethod" : "None",
         "SessionAuthMethod"   : "None",
         "InitiatorAddress"    : "192.168.0.100",
         "InitiatorName"       : "iqn.1991-05.com.microsoft:hogehoge",
         "LUN" : [
             "LV0",
             "LV1"
         ],
         "MaxConnections" : 4
     },
     {
         "InitiatorAlias"             : "CHAP Session"
         "DiscoveryAuthMethod"        : "None",
         "SessionAuthMethod"          : "CHAP",
 	 "SessionInitiatorUsername"   : "username",
 	 "SessionInitiatorPassword"   : "password",
	 "SessionTargetUsername"      : "username",
	 "SessionTargetPassword"      : "password"
         "LUN" : [
             "LV2"
         ],
         "FirstBurstLength" : 1048576
     }
 ],
 
 // Volume settings
 "Volume" : [
     {
         "VolumeName" : "LV0",
         "Main" : [
             {
                 "Host"  : "iqn.2006-12.jp.isp:sStorage0",
                 "Path"  : "/dev/sdc",
                 "Start" : 0,
                 "Count" : 1024
             }
         ]
     },
     {
         "VolumeName" : "LV1",
         "Main" : [
             {
                 "Host"  : "iqn.2006-12.jp.isp:sStorage0",
                 "Path"  : "/dev/sdb",
                 "Start" : 0,
                 "Count" : 1024
             },
             {
                 "Host"  : "iqn.2006-12.jp.isp:sStorage1",
                 "Path"  : "/tmp/storage.dat",
                 "Start" : 0,
                 "Count" : 2048
             }
         ],
         "Copy" : [
             [
                 {
                     "Host"  : "iqn.2006-12.jp.isp:sStorage2",
                     "Path"  : "/tmp/storage.dat",
                     "Start" : 0,
                     "Count" : 3072
                 }
             ]
         ]
     },
     {
         "VolumeName" : "LV2",
         "Main" : [
             {
                 "Host"  : "iqn.2006-12.jp.isp:sStorage1",
                 "Path"  : "/tmp/storage2.dat",
                 "Start" : 0,
                 "Count" : 1024
             }
         ]
     }
 ]
 
 }

=head1 FILES

=over

=item F</etc/sstorage/sstoraged.conf>
Configuration file for B<sstoraged>

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

B<sstoraged>(5)

=cut
